background-study
Farming is a very important aspect of humanity. Humans cannot live without food
and food cannot be without farms, hence the neccessity of farms. Farmers do a
great service to man. As the SDG goal number goes: Zero Hunger; End hunger,
achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture.
To achieve this we need to take care of agriculture and improve on its productivity.
Agricultural productivity is key to eradicating hunger and achieving food security.
As stated in the SDG goal, ”promote sustainable agriculture” sustainable agricul-
ture is a much needed achievement. Agricultural productivity can be improved by
lay down and implementing measures that maximise crop yield. There are various
many factors that affect plant growth and therefore their yield. Plants need cer-
tain essentials to grow well and these essentials if provided accurately can increase
their growth and therefore increase productivity.
Several factors affect crop health and contribute in the growth of plants soil fac-
tors, atmospheric factors and pests
Soil factors include soil temperature, the soil pH, supply of soil nutrients, soil
moisture etc. Atmospheric factors also include atmospheric temperature, humid-
ity, precipitation or rain etc. Soil temperature directly affects plant growth. Most
soil organisms function best at an optimum soil temperature. Soil temperature
impacts the rate of nitrifi- cation. It also influences soil moisture content, aeration
and availability of plant nutrients. Soil pH will influence both the availability of
soil nutrients to plants and how the nutrients react with each other. For example:
At a low pH, many elements become less available to plants, while others such as
iron, aluminum and manganese become toxic to plants. Soil moisture is a measure
of soil health, the water content present in a certain area of the ground. All plants
need to be in a specific soil moisture range — the majority of plants thrive in soil
with a moisture level that ranges between 20 and 60 percent. This is important
because if you’re trying to grow certain plants, you not only have to make sure the
soil is fertile enough to support growth, you have to be able to keep soil moisture
in a certain range. It’s an issue for industrial growers, but also private gardeners
and anyone trying to grow their own vegetables. This is because the water content
in soil is a solvent, meaning that it breaks down the nutrients and minerals that
plants need from the dirt, allowing them to absorb these helpful particles into their
systems. As atmospheric temperature increases (up to a point), photosynthesis,
transpiration and respiration increase. When combined with day length, temper-
ature also affects the change from vegetative (leafy) to reproductive (flowering)
growth. Too much rain during germination may saturate soils, resulting in poor
germination and reduced stands. However, too little rain during germination may
reduce germination and leave plants ill-prepared for future growth and develop-
ment challenges. When relative humidity levels are too high or there is a lack of
air circulation, a plant cannot make water evaporate (part of the transpiration
process) or draw nutrients from the soil. When this occurs for a prolonged period, a plant eventually rots.
From the above study we can infer that realtime and accurate information on
the condition of a farm in needed.
